so Duncan's second question was why
don't you make videos or podcasts with
the well-known leaders of veganism such
as bite size vegan etc asking them why
they don't speak honestly about during
writer freely well I don't know Duncan
it's it's been a while since you asked
this question I think you've probably
seen the answer um it's been wonderful
the support that's come out on YouTube a
lot of people not everyone but a lot of
people have taken the controversy in
Chiang Mai's the occasion to stand up
and show that they are people of real
principal even though as they say it's
never convenient to be a person
principal and other people haven't other
people have shown that it's money more
than morality that drives them or
they've shown where they stand on these
issues for other reasons you know I mean
the one guy I really remain disappointed
with is Ali tabrizi le tabrizi is known
as the friendly activist Ali and I we
were not close personal friends but we
didn't know each other um it's like
vegan gains referred to me as his friend
very flattering I I know vegan gains but
I wouldn't have said I know him well
enough to call my friend but you know
thank you you know thanks Richard does
nice thing to say but I mean Ali I would
have really described as my friend and
we knew each other well enough that he
also knew a lot of like funny anecdotes
about my sex life just funny stuff when
I was in Canada you know there was this
girl who's trying to sleep with me and I
was trying to avoid her and there were
funny stories about little things one of
my life that way so he knew me
personally and he knew what kind of guy
was in terms of my my private life and
you know for him to do what he did when
he did it because basically what what he
did was he said well he said he he said
I'll phone during writer so I made a
phone call to durianrider and then you
know he just got in touch with me by
text message and just said back to me
like no like you know he's forget it he
doesn't he doesn't care or during writer
can kind of continue playing his game
so that was in a situation when I was
literally in Chiang Mai dealing with
threats of violence death threats to I
know of at least one one that's still on
the internet were killing me has talked
about and were supposedly people were
going to drag me to the police station
and arrest me and false allegations and
defamation and since then it's gone to
include daxing and I mean the lowest of
the low I mean durianrider went that low
against somebody who is your friend
somebody you know personally and someone
who you know well enough in his sex life
that you know the allegations are
preposterous me if someone else doesn't
really know me I could understand why at
the beginning they might think I don't
know maybe during writers really onto
something maybe detective durianrider
got out his magnifying glass and he's
really uncovered something especially if
you didn't know how long I'd been in
Chiang Mai only benching my for about
two days when the the allegations made
like it maybe it's three days maybe I'm
but it was a very very short time it's
not sure I had no girlfriend in Chiang
Mai nothing was going on it wasn't like
you know some other scandals that
happened to him I in the past were at
least the guy had a girlfriend or
several girlfriends least there was some
basis for the rumor there was just
nothing it was complete fiction but if
anyone in the world could have known
about that should have known about that
and could have taken a stand it really
would have been a li tabrizi the
friendly activist and yes still to this
day it bothers me that he didn't do the
right thing when it mattered um you know
with people like bite size vegan you
know what would they if she did it's
great you know I'd be happy to talk to
or whatever but you know with these
other people you know you just you can't
assume they've got any common ground
with you or what have you I am as we've
seen lately with with a natural vegan a
lot of people assumed I had a lot of
common ground with the natural vegan I
never did I wasn't under any any
illusions about that um but you know you
get to see what what she's really made
of where she really stands in these
issues and you get to see just how
rapidly she resorts to denouncing me
comparing me to durianrider etc when
you know there's a substantive
difference of opinion there and when I'd
already apologized for hurting her
feelings both an email and here on
YouTube etc you want to talk about the
substance of the game but she's playing
a very different game and finally look
you know what I've learned lately in
terms the real divide do people here on
YouTube you have to remember i am not a
full-time youtuber this is not my job
I'm very busy right now studying Chinese
I'm very busy with my own chaotic job
situation uh you know before I was in
University classes writing essays I
remember so what one guy one other vegan
denounced me he accused me he thought I
was lying about being a university
because he thought I was spending so
much time making youtube videos I
couldn't possibly be taking us no no no
no i was i was on schedule i was writing
my essays and writing my exams all that
stuff too um so you know I'm not a
full-time youtuber I can't devote that
much time and energy that that's one
difference between me and a natural
vegan or between me and bite size vegan
but you know the other difference is who
is reading from a script and who is not
uh I you know in her personal emails to
me I really got a sense of what kind of
a human being a natural vegan ants and I
think in her unscripted videos you get a
sense of who she is also even it's only
a little bit but in the scripted videos
you do not at all so that's one wake up
Cole I've had and again it's nothing
against bite size vegan but I think in
her in her scripted videos you get no
sense of who she is what she's about and
by contrast you know bite size vegan
ages ago she gave an interview to vegan
revolution shout out to the man in the
mask vegan revolution my number one
luchador my number one favorite
professional wrestler and the Mexican
wrestling league vegan revolution did a
very casual one should be with her and
that's where she's not on a script and I
think you you do get a sense of what
kind of person she is there and so on so
you know that's been another wake-up
call but look I mean at the end of the
day different people are motivated by
different things one of the questions I
used to get nobody asks any more people
used to ask
why do you talk about during writer at
all your channel which is meaningful
question and you know for somebody like
bite size vegan she may not have an
answer she just may have no reason to
deal with this it's just not part of her
life but the answer I've consistently
given for a long time when people ask
that question or questions like it why
would I talk about durianrider on my
channel the answer is my channel is
about my life and I talk about things
that are a part of my life period you
guys may not have noticed but this
channel is not called intro to veganism
or vegan point of one title channel it
doesn't have veganism a name at all uh
this is about my life period now
veganism is a big part of my life he can
activism etc and debates within the
vegan YouTube demi-monde as part of my
life it's not my whole life I talk about
my daughter my divorce my career my
struggles at university some of you guys
are just knew you haven't looked through
the channel I talk most of my content is
not intellectual it's emotional what I
do here is really defined emotionally
rather than intellectually I see no
reason to reproduce the defects of a
written essay on YouTube I see no reason
to produce the defects of a formal
academic lecture on YouTube those are
things I'm very good at very good at
writing lectures I'm very good at
writing essays good at writing lectures
and good at delivering lectures I've
deliver lectures in formal academic
settings I've delivered lectures in
business settings to boardroom meetings
corporate contacts I've done that whole
gamut corporate NGO charity context you
know but academic context high level
academic context I've done that stuff I
never wanted this YouTube channel to
resemble an academic lecture I very
intentionally come on and try to do
things in an emotionally porous
emotionally immediate way reflecting
also some of my early experience in the
theatre as a young man um stuff I've
talked about so you know I mean uh
that's why I that's why I ever talked
about during writer freely one of my
videos about them that talked about
their diet it began because I just
finished talking to a young woman you
know just by email but a young woman
who had dropped out of veganism gone
back to eating meat because she had been
on the raw till 4 diet and she'd gained
weight and she was miserable about it I
talked to her a little bit later and you
know you find out more about her life
obviously she had other problems you
know I throw other issues but you know
it was a very spontaneous very
emotionally raw video where I was upset
saying look you know this is not just a
theory it's not just in theory that
people get on this diet gain weight and
then that get disillusioned with
veganism itself instead of getting
disillusion of the particular diet and
that I mean again anyone can present
those facts but to me uh it's not just
about the facts it's saying this is part
of my life I'm someone who's a vegan
online I talked to a network with a lot
of other vegans and I've just gotten
back from talking to someone who's going
back to eating meat and she's miserable
about it she's not happy about it
because this diet didn't work out for
her and she's gained a lot of weight and
she's unhappy about it and it's it's you
know it's messing up her life so that's
you know that's it for me and that's
also why an answer this question I
recognize that other channels don't want
to touch it don't want to handle it
whether it's bite size vegan or anything
else if you feel it's not part of your
life that's fine I totally respect that
but the thing is man when you're talking
about someone who's a personal friend of
mine someone who knows me like that
someone like Elly tabrizi dude it is
part of your life because I'm part of
your life I was your friend and what it
mattered when the chips were down when
people were saying they were going to
come to my apartment and beat me up in
the hallway in front of my apartment
when people said they were going to beat
me up and dragged me to the police
station with false allegations when
people defamed me doxxed me tried to
humiliate me try to ruin my life
professionally personally privately for
no good reason when you knew both of us
I was your friend I was part of your
life and of course Ali tabrizi he knows
freely enduring writer face to face if
you haven't seen it there's video tape
footage online dude that is part of your
life oh and for him to do what he did at
that time yeah that really let me down
but hey at the same time other people
stood up and show that they were men of
principle I was never expecting the
light twins stand up they don't know
me like that now they do it's great i'm
happy another light winds never
expecting richard to do that vegan gains
I mean in some ways like like in a
subtle way I really wonder if this is a
turning point for vegan gains where he
thinks about the game differently thinks
about what he's doing and how he plays
the game differently because for a lot
of people for a lot of people what went
down in Chiang Mai is a turning point
and I've said it before I've said it
again look man youtube is game but
veganism should not be a game